#### Public Key Cryptography ####
- In cryptography, a key is a piece of information used for scrambling data so that it appears random; often it's a large number, or string of numbers and letters.
- When unencrypted data, also called plaintext, is put into a cryptographic algorithm using the key, the plaintext comes out the other side as random-looking data.
- However, anyone with the right key for decrypting the data can put it back into plaintext form.

- Public key cryptography is a method of encrypting or signing data with two different keys and making one of the keys, the public key, available for anyone to use. The other key is known as the private key. Data encrypted with the public key can only be decrypted with the private key.
- Because of this use of two keys instead of one, public key cryptography is also known as asymmetric cryptography.
- It is widely used, especially for TLS/SSL, which makes HTTPS possible.
- Components of Public Key Encryption:
	- **Plain Text:**   
	    This is the message which is readable or understandable. This message is given to the Encryption algorithm as an input.
	- **Cipher Text:**   
	    The cipher text is produced as an output of Encryption algorithm. We cannot simply understand this message.
	- **Encryption Algorithm:**   
	    The encryption algorithm is used to convert plain text into cipher text.
	- **Decryption Algorithm:**   
	    It accepts the cipher text as input and the matching key (Private Key or Public key) and produces the original plain text
	- **Public Key:**   
	    - Used to encrypt data
	    - Can be distributed and used by anyone
	    - Can only be decrypted with the associated private key
	    - Not a secret
	- **Private Key**
	    - Used to dencrypt data
	    - Should not be distributed or shared
	    - Can only decrypt information encrypted by associated public key
	    - Is a secret

#### Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) ####
- A Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is used to confirm identity.
- It does this by **proving ownership of a private key**.
- It is a 'trust service' which can be used to **verify that a sender or receiver of data are exactly who they claim to be**.
- A privately hosted PKI serves this purpose within an organisation, rather than as a publicly available service.
- A **private PKI** will be used to authenticate entities on an **internally hosted service**, like a VPN.
- This is in contrast to a  publicly hosted PKI service which will authenticate end entities on public services, like an internet facing public web site.
- An _end entity_ could be a device like a laptop, phone or tablet alternatively it could be a network device or a software service.
- An _organization_ is any _group of end entities_. This could be a company, made up of people, their laptops, phones and tablets. But, it could also include less obvious ' end entities' like networking devices or any 'smart' technology that we want to communicate with.

#### PKI Components ####
- **Certificate authority (CA)** - Issues an entity's certificate and acts as a trusted component within a private PKI. Any certificate issued by the CA is trusted by all entities that trust the CA. The exact role of a CA will depend on its position within a CA hierarchy.
- **Certificate** - A digital document, signed by a CA, and used to prove the owner of a public key, within a PKI. The certificate has a number of attributes, such as usage of the key, Client authentication, Server authentication or Digital signature and the public key. The certificate also contains the subject name which is information identifying the owner. This could be, for example, a DNS name or IP address.
- **Registration authority (RA)** - Receives certificate signing requests and verifies the identity of an end entity. The RA will approve a request before the certificate can be issued by the CA. This is a very important stage of the process and it often involves a procedure to enroll end entities into the PKI.
- **Validation authority (VA)** - A VA allows an entity to check that a certificate has not been revoked. The VA role is often carried out by an online facility hosted by an organisation who operates the PKI. A validation authority will often use OCSP or CRL to advertise revoked certificates.
- **Secure storage** - A method of securely storing a private key is required for both the Certificate Authority (CA) and end entity, to protect the key from compromise.
- **Public/Private key pair** - A private key and associated public key are mathematically related to one another. The public key can be shared widely. The private key proves ownership of the identity and must be kept secret.
- **Certificate database.** This database stores information about issued certificates. In addition to the certificate itself, the database includes the validity period and status of each PKI certificate. Certificate revocation is done by updating this database, which must be queried to authenticate any data digitally signed or encrypted with the secret key of the certificate holder.

#### PKI Operation ####
**1. Entity registration**
- An entity will register with a PKI service by contacting the Registration Authority (RA) and providing a level of identification, along with a PKCS (Public Key Cryptography Standards) #10 certificate signing request (CSR).
- The CSR contains the requester's public key, a signature using the private key to prove ownership and most of the details needed to create a certificate.
- It's important that an attacker cannot intercept the CSR while it's in transit between the end entity and the Registration authority.
**2. Identity check**
- The RA will check the identity of the end entity.
- The RA will then approve the request and instruct the CA to issue the certificate.
**3. Certificate delivery to End Entity**
- The CA will deliver the signed certificate to the End Entity and will keep a record of the certificate being issued, for audit purposes.
- An end entity is now ready to use its certificate for the intended purpose - For example, to make a secure connection with another end entity.


#### PKI Terminology ####
- **Certificate Enrollement**: Certificate enrollment is the process by which a user requests a digital certificate from a Certificate Authority (CA). There are several methods for enabling certificate enrollment ranging from manual methods that are initiated by a user performing the certificate request to automatic methods where the certificate request is initiated by Group Policy or a login script. Manual enrollment is not well suited for mass certificate deployment because of the amount of time an organization must spend training personnel to use such a method. In contrast, Autoenrollment, on the other hand, lowers the cost of a PKI by reducing the time and effort required to deploy certificates. The Certificate Enrollment Methods are the following:
	1. **Certificate Services Web Enrollment Pages**
	        Certificate Services Web Enrollment pages allow a user to request both user and computer certificates from a Web browser. Certificate Services Web Enrollment pages allow the requestor to ask for specific certificate templates from an enterprise CA, submit certificate request files from a network device or another operating system and check on pending certificate requests.
	2. **Certificate Enrollment wizard**
	        This wizard permits a user to request certificates from an enterprise CA by selecting the enterprise CA and the certificate template and defining additional settings, such as key length and CSP. The wizard can be launched from the Certificates Microsoft Management Console (MMC) console.
	3. **Automatic Certificate Request Settings (ACRS)**
	        This Group Policy setting allows the automatic deployment of version 1 computer certificates to computer accounts in the forest. The computer account must be in the domain or organizational unit (OU) where the Automatic Certificate Request Settings is defined. In addition, the computer account must belong to a group that is assigned the Read and Enroll permissions for the version 1 certificate template.
	4. **Autoenrollment settings**
	        This combination of version 2 and version 3 certificate templates and Group Policy settings allows the automatic deployment of certificates to users and computers. All computers or user accounts within the domain or OU where the Autoenrollment Settings Group Policy setting is applied automatically receive any published version 2 or version 3 certificate templates to which the user or computer account is assigned Read, Enroll, and Autoenroll permissions. Autoenrollment can be used for initial certificate deployment as well as for certificate renewal.
	5. **Certreq.exe**
	        This command-line tool allows a user to create, submit, retrieve, and accept certificate requests sent to a Windows Server CA. The requests can be sent to both standalone and enterprise CAs.
	6. **Network Device Enrollment Service (NDES)**
	        NDES is a new Certificate Services role service that enables enrollment through Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol (SCEP), an open-source certificate management protocol.
	7. **Registration authorities**
	        Registration authorities allow custom workflows to be defined for certificate life-cycle management tasks. A registration authority ensures that any required data collection and approvals are collected before a certificate management task is processed.