To understand what's running under the hood in Kerberos, see [[1. How does Kerberos work?]]
### 1. Golden Ticket ###
#### What the attack is about. ####
- A "golden ticket" is a forged TGT, signed by the domain's krbtgt account.
- A golden ticket can be used to impersonate any user, to any service, on any machine in the domain.
- The krbtgt credentials are never changed automatically. For that reason, the krbtgt NTLM/AES hash is probably the single most powerful secret that can be obtained, since the `krbtgt`'s key is used to encrypt the PAC.
- In order to craft a golden ticket, testers need to find the `krbtgt`'s RC4 key or AES key (128 or 256 bits). In most cases, this can only be achieved with domain admin privileges.

### 2. Silver Ticket ###
#### What the attack is about. ####
- A "silver ticket" is a forged TGS, signed using the secret material (RC4/AES keys) of a computer account.
- A TGS can be forged for any user to any service on that machine, which is useful for short/medium-term persistence.
- By default, computer passwords change every 30 days, at which time the attacker must re-obtain the new secrets to continue making silver tickets.
- While the scope is more limited than Golden Tickets, the required hash is easier to get and there is no communication with a DC when using them, so detection is more difficult than Golden Tickets.
- If the username supplied doesn't exist in Active Directory, the ticket gets rejected.

### 3. Diamond Ticket ###
#### What the attack is about. ####
- Golden and Silver tickets can usually be detected by probes that monitor the service ticket requests (KRB_TGS_REQ) that have no corresponding TGT requests (KRB_AS_REQ).
- Those types of tickets also feature forged PACs that sometimes fail at mimicking real ones, thus increasing their detection rates.
- Diamond tickets can be a useful alternative in the way they simply request a normal ticket, decrypt the PAC, modify it, recalculate the signatures and encrypt it again.
- It requires knowledge of the target service long-term key (can be the krbtgt for a TGT, or a target service for a Service Ticket).
- This technique allows to produce a PAC that is highly similar to a legitimate one and also produces legitimate requests.
- If the username supplied doesn't exist in Active Directory, the ticket gets rejected.

### 4. Sapphire Ticket ###
#### What the attack is about. ####
- Sapphire tickets are similar to Diamond tickets in the way the ticket is not forged, but instead based on a legitimate one obtained after a request.
- The difference lays in how the PAC is modified. The Diamond ticket approach modifies the legitimate PAC. In the Sapphire ticket approach, the PAC of another powerful user is obtained through an S4U2self+u2u trick.
- This PAC then replaces the one featured in the legitimate ticket.
- The resulting ticket is an assembly of legitimate elements, and follows a standard ticket request, which makes it then most difficult silver/golden ticket variant to detect.
- There will be no discrepancy anymore between what's in the PAC and what's in Active Directory.